_events/2021-06-24-isc.md, before:

---
layout: bsswt
event-type: bsswt
directory: 2021-06-24-isc
status: scheduled
location: "online"
date: 2021-06-24T14:00+200
end-date: 2021-06-25T18:00
title: "Better Scientific Software"
title-type: "tutorial"
#title-url:
venue: "ISC High Performance"
venue-type: "conference"
venue-url: https://www.isc-hpc.com/
presentations-doi: 10.6084/m9.figshare.14256257
hands-on-repo: bssw-tutorial/hello-numerical-world-2021-06-isc
presenter-ids: [bernhold, adubey64, pagrubel, rinkug, frobnitzem]
---

## Table of Contents
* [Description](#description)
* [Agenda](#agenda) 
* [Presentation Slides](#presentation-slides) 
* [How to Participate](#how-to-participate) 
* [Hands-On Exercises](#hands-on-exercises) 
* [Stay in Touch](#stay-in-touch) 
* [Resources from Presentations](#resources-from-presentations) 
* [Requested Citation](#requested-citation)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements) 

---
## Description

The computational science and engineering (CSE) community is in the midst of an extremely challenging period created by the confluence of disruptive changes in computing architectures, demand for greater scientific reproducibility, and new opportunities for greatly improved simulation capabilities, especially through coupling physics and scales.  Computer architecture changes require new software design and implementation strategies, including significant refactoring of existing code. Reproducibility demands require more rigor across the entire software endeavor. Code coupling requires aggregate team interactions including integration of software processes and practices.  These challenges demand large investments in scientific software development and improved practices.  Focusing on improved developer productivity and software sustainability is both urgent and essential.

This tutorial will provide information and hands-on experience with software practices, processes, and tools explicitly tailored for CSE.  Goals are improving the productivity of those who develop CSE software and increasing the sustainability of software artifacts.  We discuss practices that are relevant for projects of all sizes, with emphasis on small teams, and on aggregate teams composed of small teams.  Topics include software licensing, effective models, tools, and processes for small teams (including agile workflow management), reproducibility, and scientific software testing (including automated testing and continuous integration).

---
## Agenda

| Day | Time (CEST)| Module | Topic | Presenter | Time (EDT) |
|-----|-----------:|--------|-------|-----------|-----------:|
| Thu | 2:00pm-2:10pm | 00 | Introduction and Setup | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL | 8:00am-8:10am |
| Thu | 2:10pm-2:30pm | 01 | Motivation and Overview of Best Practices in HPC Software Development | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL | 8:10am-8:30am |
| Thu | 2:30pm-3:00pm | 02 | Agile Methodologies | Rinku Gupta, ANL | 8:30am-9:00am |
| Thu | 3:00pm-3:30pm | 03 | Git Workflows | Patricia A. Grubel, LANL | 9:00am-9:30am |
| Thu | 3:30pm-4:00pm | 04 | Scientific Software Design | Anshu Dubey, ANL | 9:30am-10:00am |
| Thu | 4:00pm-4:30pm | | *Break* | | 10:00am-10:30am |
| Thu | 4:30pm-5:00pm | 05 | Improving Reproducibility Through Better Software Practices | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL | 10:30am-11:00am |
| Thu | 5:00pm-5:15pm | 06 | Agile Methodologies Redux | Rinku Gupta, ANL | 11:00am-11:15am |
| Thu | 5:15pm-6:00pm | | Hands-On Activities | All | 11:15am-12:00pm |
|||||||
| Fri | 2:00pm-2:25pm | 07 | Software Testing Introduction | Patricia A. Grubel, LANL | 8:00am-8:25am |
| Fri | 2:25pm-2:40pm | 08 | Testing Walk-Through | David M. Rogers, ORNL | 8:25am-8:40am |
| Fri | 2:40pm-3:00pm | 09 | Testing Complex Software | David M. Rogers, ORNL | 8:40am-9:00am |
| Fri | 3:00pm-3:30pm | 10 | Continuous Integration | David M. Rogers, ORNL | 9:00am-9:30am |
| Fri | 3:30pm-4:00pm | | Hands-On Activities | All | 9:30am-10:00am |
| Fri | 4:00pm-4:30pm | | *Break* | | 10:00am-1030am |
| Fri | 4:30pm-5:15pm | 11 | Refactoring Scientific Software | Anshu Dubey, ANL | 10:30am-11:15am |
| Fri | 5:15pm-5:30pm | 12 | Summary | Anshu Dubey, ANL | 11:15am-11:30am |
| Fri | 5:30pm-6:00pm | | Hands-On Activities | All | 11:30am-12:00pm |

---
## Presentation Slides

* The latest version of the slides will always be available at **<{{ site.doi-resolver-url }}/{{ page.presentations-doi }}>**.
  - Note that these files may include additional slides that will not be discussed during the tutorial, but questions are welcome.

* Version History:
  - v1: Initial publication

---
## How to Participate

* Please use Zoom chat to ask questions at any time.  We will respond in chat or verbally as opportunities permit.

* During breaks, the instructors are happy to hold further discussions with anyone interested.

---
## Hands-On Exercises

### Introduction

The hands-on exercises for this {{ page.title-type }} are based around a simple numerical model using the one-dimensional heat equation.  The example is described briefly in the repository's [README]({{ site.github-url }}/{{ page.hands-on-repo }}#readme) file, and in greater detail in the ATPESC [Hands-On lesson](https://xsdk-project.github.io/MathPackagesTraining2020/lessons/hand_coded_heat/).  The ATPESC version focuses on the numerical aspects of the model.  But for this {{ page.title-type }}, we're focused on how to make the software better from a quality perspective, so **you don't need to understand the math to do these exercises**.

For the purposes of these hands-on exercises, you should imagine you've inherited an early version of the hello-numerical-world software from a colleague who's left the project, and you've been assigned to get it into better shape so that it can be used in the next [ATPESC](https://extremecomputingtraining.anl.gov/) summer school.

The repository you'll be working with is on GitHub: **[{{ page.hands-on-repo }}]({{ site.github-url }}/{{ page.hands-on-repo }})**.
*Note: most of the screenshots will refer to the generic "hello-numerical-world" repository rather than the one specifically for this tutorial.*

### List of Hands-On Exercises
*Note that the exercise numbers align with the presentation modules.  Not every module has exercises (yet).*
* Thursday
  * **[Exercise 0: Setting up the Prerequisites](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m00-prerequisites.html)**. Setup the accounts needed for these exercises.
  * **[Exercise 2: Agile Methodologies](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m02-agile.html).**  You'll use GitHub issues and project boards to setup a simple "personal kanban" board.
  * **[Exercise 3: Git Workflows](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m03-git-workflows.html).** You'll fork our hello-numerical-world repository, create a feature branch, and make a pull request
  * **[Exercise 6: Agile Redux](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m06-agile-redux.html).**  You'll create epic, story, and task issues for the refactoring task and track them on a kanban board

* Friday
  * **[Exercise 8: Software Testing](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m08-testing.html).** You'll establish a simple continuous integration workflow and then refine it, adding code coverage assessment
  * **[Exercise 10: Continuous Integration](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m10-continuous-integration.html).** You'll establish a simple continuous integration workflow and then refine it, adding code coverage assessment
  * **[Exercise 11: Refactoring Scientific Software](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m11-refactoring1.html).**  You'll perform a small, well-defined refactoring exercise

---
## Stay in Touch

* After the tutorial please feel free to email questions or feedback to the BSSw tutorial team at <bssw-tutorial@lists.mcs.anl.gov>.

* If you want to do the [hands-on exercises](#hands-on-exercises), we're happy to provide feedback on your pull requests and issues, even after the end of the tutorial.

* To find out about future events organized by the IDEAS Productivity Project, you can [subscribe to our mailing list](http://eepurl.com/cQCyJ5) (usually ~2 messages/month).

* For monthly updates on the Better Scientific Software site, subscribe to our [monthly digest](https://bssw.io/pages/receive-our-email-digest).

---
## Resources from Presentations
*These are the links included in the tutorial presentations, included here for easier access*

* Module 0: Introduction and Setup
  * [IDEAS Productivity Project](http://ideas-productivity.org)
    * [IDEAS Productivity mailing list](http://eepurl.com/cQCyJ5)
  * [Better Scientific Software site](https://bssw.io)
    * [BSSw Digest](https://bssw.io/pages/receive-our-email-digest)
    * [RSS Feed](https://bssw.io/items.rss)
  * [The IDEAS Report](https://doi.org/10.2172/1606662)
  * [Write to the tutorial authors](mailto:bssw-tutorial@lists.mcs.anl.gov)

* Module 1: Motivation and Overview of Best Practices in HPC Software Development
  * [Best Practices for Scientific Computing](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.1001745)
  * [Good Enough Practices in Scientific Computing](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005510)
  * Linux Foundation Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII) Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en) Badging Program
  * [Portability and Sustainability Improvement Planning](https://bssw.io/psip)

* Module 2: Agile Methodologies
  * [Agile Manifesto](http://agilemanifesto.org/)
  * [A-team tools for Agile practices](https://betterscientificsoftware.github.io/A-Team-Tools/)
  * [Policies: A Code of Conduct for Open Source Projects](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/)
  * Books
    * [The Agile Samurai: How Agile Masters Deliver Great Software, by Jonathan Rasmusson](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1934356581/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_ClBABbNGS7ZKS)
    * [Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity, by David Allen](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0143126563/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_apBABbT2YZMMK)
    * [Code Complete: A Practical Handbook of Software Construction, by Steve McConnell](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0735619670/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_CkBABbXJWS8KV)

* Module 3: Git Workflows
  * [Atlassian/BitBucket (Comparing Workflows)](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows)
  * [Git Flow (Driessen's Original Blog)](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)
      * [Git extensions](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow)
  * [GitHub Flow](http://scottchacon.com/2011/08/31/github-flow.html)
  * [GitLab Flow](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/workflow/gitlab_flow.html)
  * [Trilinos](https://trilinos.github.io/)
  * [Open MPI](https://www.open-mpi.org)
  * [FleCSI](https://flecsi.github.io/flecsi)

* Module 4: Software Design
  * [Related Article](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-27308-2_19)
  * [Related Webinar](https://bssw.io/events/webinar-software-design-for-longevity-with-performance-portability)

* Module 5: Improving Reproducibility Through Better Software Practices
  * [Toward a Compatible Reproducibility Taxonomy for Computational and Computing Sciences](https://cfwebprod.sandia.gov/cfdocs/CompResearch/docs/SAND2018-11186.pdf)
  * [Reproducibility and Replicability in Science](https://www.nap.edu/catalog/25303/reproducibility-and-replicability-in-science)
  * [Many Psychology Findings Not as Strong as Claimed](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/28/science/many-social-science-findings-not-as-strong-as-claimed-study-says.html)
  * [The War Over Supercooled Water](https://physicstoday.scitation.org/do/10.1063/PT.6.1.20180822a/full/)
  * [Researchers Find Bug in Python Script May Have Affected Hundreds of Studies]( https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2019/10/chemists-discover-cross-platform-python-scripts-not-so-cross-platform/)
  * [The FAIR Guiding Principles for Scientific Data Management and Stewardship. Mark D. Wilkinson, et al. 2016](https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2016.18)
  * [FAIR4RS](https://www.rd-alliance.org/groups/fair-research-software-fair4rs-wg)
  * [National Science Foundation Data Management Plan Requirements](https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/dmp.jsp)
  * [SC21 Reproducibility Initiative](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/submit/reproducibility-initiative/)
  * [ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (TOMS)](http://toms.acm.org/replicated-computational-results.cfm)
  * [ACM Artifact Review and Badging](https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/artifact-review-and-badging-current)
  * <http://fursin.net/reproducibility.html>
  * [ National Information Standards Organization (NISO) on Reproducibility and Badging](https://www.niso.org/niso-io/2019/01/new-niso-project-badging-scheme-reproducibility-computational-and-computing)
  * [Floating Point Analysis Tools](http://fpanalysistools.org/)
  * [Code Ocean (Cloud platforms - publish and reproduce research code and data)](https://codeocean.com/)
  * DOIs and hosting of data, code, documents:
     * [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/)
     * [FigShare](https://figshare.com/)
  * [Editorial: ACM TOMS Replicated Computational Results Initiative. Michael A. Heroux. 2015](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2743015)
  * [Simple experiments in reproducibility and technical trust by Mike Heroux and students (work in progress)](https://betterscientificsoftware.github.io/Trust-Tools/)

* Module 6: Agile Methodologies Redux
  * *none*

* Module 7: Testing Introduction
  * Python Build and Test Framework: [pyscaffold.org](https://pyscaffold.org)
  * Build-Link-Test CMake Framework: [llnl-blt.readthedocs.io](https://llnl-blt.readthedocs.io)
  * Static Source Analysis (C++): [clang-tidy](https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/)
  * Static Source Analysis (python): [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/index.html) and [pylint](https://www.pylint.org/)
  * Code Coverage Webservices: [codecov](https://about.codecov.io/) and [coveralls](https://coveralls.io/)
  * Tutorials for code coverage: [Online Tutorial](https://github.com/amklinv/morpheus), [Another example](https://github.com/jrdoneal/infrastructure)
  * [Development Practices Survey Article](https://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.14188463.v1)

* Module 8: Testing Walk-Through
  * See Hands-on activities.

* Module 9: Testing Complex Applications
  * [Useful How-to resources on test and test suites on ideas-productivity.org](https://ideas-productivity.org/resources/howtos/)
  * Related Articles: [1](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8449015), [2](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/spe.2220)

* Module 10: Continuous Integration
  * [Exascale Computing Project CI documentation](https://ecp-ci.gitlab.io/)
  * [Github Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)
  * [Travis CI service](https://travis-ci.com)
  * [Codecov service](https://codecov.io)

* Module 11: Refactoring Scientific Software
  * [AMReX](https://amrex-codes.github.io/amrex/science.html)
  * [Related Article](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s42979-020-0077-x)
  * [Related Presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ELkr8Ok_cMg)

* Module 12: Summary
  * COVID-19 epidemiology saga
    * <https://doi.org/10.25561/77482>
    * <https://www.nicholaslewis.org/imperial-college-uk-covid-19-numbers-dont-seem-to-add-up/>
    * <https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-01003-6>
    * <https://www.foxnews.com/world/imperial-college-britain-coronavirus-lockdown-buggy-mess-unreliable>
    * <https://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/2020/05/16/coding-led-lockdown-totally-unreliable-buggy-mess-say-experts/>
    * <https://github.com/mrc-ide/covid-sim/>
    * <https://philbull.wordpress.com/2020/05/10/why-you-can-ignore-reviews-of-scientific-code-by-commercial-software-developers/amp/>
    * <http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3865491>
  * [Productivity and Sustainability Improvement Planning](https://bssw.io/psip)
  * [Better Scientific Software web site](https://bssw.io/)

---
## Requested Citation

The requested citation the overall tutorial is: David E. Bernholdt, Anshu Dubey, Rinku K. Gupta, Patricia A. Grubel, and David Rogers, Better Scientific Software tutorial, in ISC High Performance, online, 2021. DOI: [{{ page.presentations-doi }}]({{ site.doi-resolver-url }}/{{ page.presentations-doi }}).

Individual modules may be cited as *Speaker*, *Module Title*, in Better Scientific Software tutorial…

Commit message:

Shift to using general artifacts data structure
Artifacts should include the presentation slide DOI (always present), the hands-on code repo (often present), and any other artifacts which may relate to the tutorial (particularly playlists for videos).

Because the artifact information may be needed in multiple locations (including personalizing the hands-on instructions), we need to put the artifacts in a _data file to make the universally available.

_events/2021-06-24-isc.md, after:

---
layout: bsswt
event-type: bsswt
directory: 2021-06-24-isc
status: scheduled
location: "online"
date: 2021-06-24T14:00+200
end-date: 2021-06-25T18:00
title: "Better Scientific Software"
title-type: "tutorial"
#title-url:
venue: "ISC High Performance"
venue-type: "conference"
venue-url: https://www.isc-hpc.com/
presenter-ids: [bernhold, adubey64, pagrubel, rinkug, frobnitzem]
# artifacts are in _data/bsswt/{{ page.directory }}
---
{%- assign my-artifacts = site.data.bsswt[page.directory].artifacts -%}
{%- include key-artifact-shorthands artifacts=my-artifacts -%}

## On this Page
* [Description](#description)
* [Agenda](#agenda) 
* [Presentation Slides](#presentation-slides) 
* [How to Participate](#how-to-participate) 
* [Hands-On Exercises](#hands-on-exercises) 
* [Stay in Touch](#stay-in-touch) 
* [Resources from Presentations](#resources-from-presentations) 
* [Requested Citation](#requested-citation)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements) 

---
## Description

The computational science and engineering (CSE) community is in the midst of an extremely challenging period created by the confluence of disruptive changes in computing architectures, demand for greater scientific reproducibility, and new opportunities for greatly improved simulation capabilities, especially through coupling physics and scales.  Computer architecture changes require new software design and implementation strategies, including significant refactoring of existing code. Reproducibility demands require more rigor across the entire software endeavor. Code coupling requires aggregate team interactions including integration of software processes and practices.  These challenges demand large investments in scientific software development and improved practices.  Focusing on improved developer productivity and software sustainability is both urgent and essential.

This tutorial will provide information and hands-on experience with software practices, processes, and tools explicitly tailored for CSE.  Goals are improving the productivity of those who develop CSE software and increasing the sustainability of software artifacts.  We discuss practices that are relevant for projects of all sizes, with emphasis on small teams, and on aggregate teams composed of small teams.  Topics include software licensing, effective models, tools, and processes for small teams (including agile workflow management), reproducibility, and scientific software testing (including automated testing and continuous integration).

---
## Agenda

| Day | Time (CEST)| Module | Topic | Presenter | Time (EDT) |
|-----|-----------:|--------|-------|-----------|-----------:|
| Thu | 2:00pm-2:10pm | 00 | Introduction and Setup | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL | 8:00am-8:10am |
| Thu | 2:10pm-2:30pm | 01 | Motivation and Overview of Best Practices in HPC Software Development | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL | 8:10am-8:30am |
| Thu | 2:30pm-3:00pm | 02 | Agile Methodologies | Rinku Gupta, ANL | 8:30am-9:00am |
| Thu | 3:00pm-3:30pm | 03 | Git Workflows | Patricia A. Grubel, LANL | 9:00am-9:30am |
| Thu | 3:30pm-4:00pm | 04 | Scientific Software Design | Anshu Dubey, ANL | 9:30am-10:00am |
| Thu | 4:00pm-4:30pm | | *Break* | | 10:00am-10:30am |
| Thu | 4:30pm-5:00pm | 05 | Improving Reproducibility Through Better Software Practices | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL | 10:30am-11:00am |
| Thu | 5:00pm-5:15pm | 06 | Agile Methodologies Redux | Rinku Gupta, ANL | 11:00am-11:15am |
| Thu | 5:15pm-6:00pm | | Hands-On Activities | All | 11:15am-12:00pm |
|||||||
| Fri | 2:00pm-2:25pm | 07 | Software Testing Introduction | Patricia A. Grubel, LANL | 8:00am-8:25am |
| Fri | 2:25pm-2:40pm | 08 | Testing Walk-Through | David M. Rogers, ORNL | 8:25am-8:40am |
| Fri | 2:40pm-3:00pm | 09 | Testing Complex Software | David M. Rogers, ORNL | 8:40am-9:00am |
| Fri | 3:00pm-3:30pm | 10 | Continuous Integration | David M. Rogers, ORNL | 9:00am-9:30am |
| Fri | 3:30pm-4:00pm | | Hands-On Activities | All | 9:30am-10:00am |
| Fri | 4:00pm-4:30pm | | *Break* | | 10:00am-1030am |
| Fri | 4:30pm-5:15pm | 11 | Refactoring Scientific Software | Anshu Dubey, ANL | 10:30am-11:15am |
| Fri | 5:15pm-5:30pm | 12 | Summary | Anshu Dubey, ANL | 11:15am-11:30am |
| Fri | 5:30pm-6:00pm | | Hands-On Activities | All | 11:30am-12:00pm |

---
## Presentation Slides

* The latest version of the slides will always be available at **<{{ site.doi-resolver-url }}/{{ presentations-doi }}>**.
  - Note that these files may include additional slides that will not be discussed during the tutorial, but questions are welcome.

* Version History:
  - v1: Initial publication

---
## How to Participate

* Please use Zoom chat to ask questions at any time.  We will respond in chat or verbally as opportunities permit.

* During breaks, the instructors are happy to hold further discussions with anyone interested.

---
## Hands-On Exercises

### Introduction

The hands-on exercises for this {{ page.title-type }} are based around a simple numerical model using the one-dimensional heat equation.  The example is described briefly in the repository's [README]({{ site.github-url }}/{{ hands-on-repo }}#readme) file, and in greater detail in the ATPESC [Hands-On lesson](https://xsdk-project.github.io/MathPackagesTraining2020/lessons/hand_coded_heat/).  The ATPESC version focuses on the numerical aspects of the model.  But for this {{ page.title-type }}, we're focused on how to make the software better from a quality perspective, so **you don't need to understand the math to do these exercises**.

For the purposes of these hands-on exercises, you should imagine you've inherited an early version of the hello-numerical-world software from a colleague who's left the project, and you've been assigned to get it into better shape so that it can be used in the next [ATPESC](https://extremecomputingtraining.anl.gov/) summer school.

The repository you'll be working with is on GitHub: **[{{ hands-on-repo }}]({{ site.github-url }}/{{ hands-on-repo }})**.
*Note: most of the screenshots will refer to the generic "hello-numerical-world" repository rather than the one specifically for this tutorial.*

### List of Hands-On Exercises
*Note that the exercise numbers align with the presentation modules.  Not every module has exercises (yet).*
* Thursday
  * **[Exercise 0: Setting up the Prerequisites](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m00-prerequisites.html)**. Setup the accounts needed for these exercises.
  * **[Exercise 2: Agile Methodologies](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m02-agile.html).**  You'll use GitHub issues and project boards to setup a simple "personal kanban" board.
  * **[Exercise 3: Git Workflows](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m03-git-workflows.html).** You'll fork our hello-numerical-world repository, create a feature branch, and make a pull request
  * **[Exercise 6: Agile Redux](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m06-agile-redux.html).**  You'll create epic, story, and task issues for the refactoring task and track them on a kanban board

* Friday
  * **[Exercise 8: Software Testing](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m08-testing.html).** You'll establish a simple continuous integration workflow and then refine it, adding code coverage assessment
  * **[Exercise 10: Continuous Integration](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m10-continuous-integration.html).** You'll establish a simple continuous integration workflow and then refine it, adding code coverage assessment
  * **[Exercise 11: Refactoring Scientific Software](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m11-refactoring1.html).**  You'll perform a small, well-defined refactoring exercise

---
## Stay in Touch

* After the tutorial please feel free to email questions or feedback to the BSSw tutorial team at <bssw-tutorial@lists.mcs.anl.gov>.

* If you want to do the [hands-on exercises](#hands-on-exercises), we're happy to provide feedback on your pull requests and issues, even after the end of the tutorial.

* To find out about future events organized by the IDEAS Productivity Project, you can [subscribe to our mailing list](http://eepurl.com/cQCyJ5) (usually ~2 messages/month).

* For monthly updates on the Better Scientific Software site, subscribe to our [monthly digest](https://bssw.io/pages/receive-our-email-digest).

---
## Resources from Presentations
*These are the links included in the tutorial presentations, included here for easier access*

* Module 0: Introduction and Setup
  * [IDEAS Productivity Project](http://ideas-productivity.org)
    * [IDEAS Productivity mailing list](http://eepurl.com/cQCyJ5)
  * [Better Scientific Software site](https://bssw.io)
    * [BSSw Digest](https://bssw.io/pages/receive-our-email-digest)
    * [RSS Feed](https://bssw.io/items.rss)
  * [The IDEAS Report](https://doi.org/10.2172/1606662)
  * [Write to the tutorial authors](mailto:bssw-tutorial@lists.mcs.anl.gov)

* Module 1: Motivation and Overview of Best Practices in HPC Software Development
  * [Best Practices for Scientific Computing](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.1001745)
  * [Good Enough Practices in Scientific Computing](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005510)
  * Linux Foundation Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII) Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en) Badging Program
  * [Portability and Sustainability Improvement Planning](https://bssw.io/psip)

* Module 2: Agile Methodologies
  * [Agile Manifesto](http://agilemanifesto.org/)
  * [A-team tools for Agile practices](https://betterscientificsoftware.github.io/A-Team-Tools/)
  * [Policies: A Code of Conduct for Open Source Projects](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/)
  * Books
    * [The Agile Samurai: How Agile Masters Deliver Great Software, by Jonathan Rasmusson](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1934356581/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_ClBABbNGS7ZKS)
    * [Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity, by David Allen](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0143126563/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_apBABbT2YZMMK)
    * [Code Complete: A Practical Handbook of Software Construction, by Steve McConnell](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0735619670/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_CkBABbXJWS8KV)

* Module 3: Git Workflows
  * [Atlassian/BitBucket (Comparing Workflows)](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows)
  * [Git Flow (Driessen's Original Blog)](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)
      * [Git extensions](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow)
  * [GitHub Flow](http://scottchacon.com/2011/08/31/github-flow.html)
  * [GitLab Flow](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/workflow/gitlab_flow.html)
  * [Trilinos](https://trilinos.github.io/)
  * [Open MPI](https://www.open-mpi.org)
  * [FleCSI](https://flecsi.github.io/flecsi)

* Module 4: Software Design
  * [Related Article](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-27308-2_19)
  * [Related Webinar](https://bssw.io/events/webinar-software-design-for-longevity-with-performance-portability)

* Module 5: Improving Reproducibility Through Better Software Practices
  * [Toward a Compatible Reproducibility Taxonomy for Computational and Computing Sciences](https://cfwebprod.sandia.gov/cfdocs/CompResearch/docs/SAND2018-11186.pdf)
  * [Reproducibility and Replicability in Science](https://www.nap.edu/catalog/25303/reproducibility-and-replicability-in-science)
  * [Many Psychology Findings Not as Strong as Claimed](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/28/science/many-social-science-findings-not-as-strong-as-claimed-study-says.html)
  * [The War Over Supercooled Water](https://physicstoday.scitation.org/do/10.1063/PT.6.1.20180822a/full/)
  * [Researchers Find Bug in Python Script May Have Affected Hundreds of Studies]( https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2019/10/chemists-discover-cross-platform-python-scripts-not-so-cross-platform/)
  * [The FAIR Guiding Principles for Scientific Data Management and Stewardship. Mark D. Wilkinson, et al. 2016](https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2016.18)
  * [FAIR4RS](https://www.rd-alliance.org/groups/fair-research-software-fair4rs-wg)
  * [National Science Foundation Data Management Plan Requirements](https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/dmp.jsp)
  * [SC21 Reproducibility Initiative](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/submit/reproducibility-initiative/)
  * [ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (TOMS)](http://toms.acm.org/replicated-computational-results.cfm)
  * [ACM Artifact Review and Badging](https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/artifact-review-and-badging-current)
  * <http://fursin.net/reproducibility.html>
  * [ National Information Standards Organization (NISO) on Reproducibility and Badging](https://www.niso.org/niso-io/2019/01/new-niso-project-badging-scheme-reproducibility-computational-and-computing)
  * [Floating Point Analysis Tools](http://fpanalysistools.org/)
  * [Code Ocean (Cloud platforms - publish and reproduce research code and data)](https://codeocean.com/)
  * DOIs and hosting of data, code, documents:
     * [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/)
     * [FigShare](https://figshare.com/)
  * [Editorial: ACM TOMS Replicated Computational Results Initiative. Michael A. Heroux. 2015](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2743015)
  * [Simple experiments in reproducibility and technical trust by Mike Heroux and students (work in progress)](https://betterscientificsoftware.github.io/Trust-Tools/)

* Module 6: Agile Methodologies Redux
  * *none*

* Module 7: Testing Introduction
  * Python Build and Test Framework: [pyscaffold.org](https://pyscaffold.org)
  * Build-Link-Test CMake Framework: [llnl-blt.readthedocs.io](https://llnl-blt.readthedocs.io)
  * Static Source Analysis (C++): [clang-tidy](https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/)
  * Static Source Analysis (python): [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/index.html) and [pylint](https://www.pylint.org/)
  * Code Coverage Webservices: [codecov](https://about.codecov.io/) and [coveralls](https://coveralls.io/)
  * Tutorials for code coverage: [Online Tutorial](https://github.com/amklinv/morpheus), [Another example](https://github.com/jrdoneal/infrastructure)
  * [Development Practices Survey Article](https://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.14188463.v1)

* Module 8: Testing Walk-Through
  * See Hands-on activities.

* Module 9: Testing Complex Applications
  * [Useful How-to resources on test and test suites on ideas-productivity.org](https://ideas-productivity.org/resources/howtos/)
  * Related Articles: [1](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8449015), [2](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/spe.2220)

* Module 10: Continuous Integration
  * [Exascale Computing Project CI documentation](https://ecp-ci.gitlab.io/)
  * [Github Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)
  * [Travis CI service](https://travis-ci.com)
  * [Codecov service](https://codecov.io)

* Module 11: Refactoring Scientific Software
  * [AMReX](https://amrex-codes.github.io/amrex/science.html)
  * [Related Article](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s42979-020-0077-x)
  * [Related Presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ELkr8Ok_cMg)

* Module 12: Summary
  * COVID-19 epidemiology saga
    * <https://doi.org/10.25561/77482>
    * <https://www.nicholaslewis.org/imperial-college-uk-covid-19-numbers-dont-seem-to-add-up/>
    * <https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-01003-6>
    * <https://www.foxnews.com/world/imperial-college-britain-coronavirus-lockdown-buggy-mess-unreliable>
    * <https://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/2020/05/16/coding-led-lockdown-totally-unreliable-buggy-mess-say-experts/>
    * <https://github.com/mrc-ide/covid-sim/>
    * <https://philbull.wordpress.com/2020/05/10/why-you-can-ignore-reviews-of-scientific-code-by-commercial-software-developers/amp/>
    * <http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3865491>
  * [Productivity and Sustainability Improvement Planning](https://bssw.io/psip)
  * [Better Scientific Software web site](https://bssw.io/)

---
## Requested Citation

The requested citation the overall tutorial is: David E. Bernholdt, Anshu Dubey, Rinku K. Gupta, Patricia A. Grubel, and David Rogers, Better Scientific Software tutorial, in ISC High Performance, online, 2021. DOI: [{{ presentations-doi }}]({{ site.doi-resolver-url }}/{{ presentations-doi }}).

Individual modules may be cited as *Speaker*, *Module Title*, in Better Scientific Software tutorial…
