---
event-type: bsswt
directory: 2021-08-12-atpesc
status: scheduled
location: "online"
date: 2021-08-12T09:30-0500
end-date: 2021-08-12T17:45
title: "Software Productivity and Sustainability"
title-type: "track"
#title-url:
venue: "Argonne Training Program on Extreme-Scale Computing (ATPESC)"
venue-type: "summer school"
venue-url: https://extremecomputingtraining.anl.gov/
presenter-ids: [bernhold, adubey64, rinkug, frobnitzem]
# artifacts are in _data/bsswt/{{ page.directory }}
---
{%- assign my-artifacts = site.data.bsswt[page.directory].artifacts -%}
{%- include key-artifact-shorthands artifacts=my-artifacts -%}
{%- assign my-presentations = site.data.bsswt[page.directory].presentations -%}
{%- assign my-agenda = site.data.bsswt[page.directory].agenda -%}
{% include set-presentation-order agenda=my-agenda presentations=my-presentations %}

## On this Page
* [Agenda](#agenda)
* [Presentation Slides](#presentation-slides) 
* [How to Participate](#how-to-participate) 
* [Hands-On Exercises](#hands-on-exercises) 
* [Stay in Touch](#stay-in-touch) 
* [Resources from Presentations](#resources-from-presentations) 
* [Requested Citation](#requested-citation)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

---

## Agenda

{%- include emit-agenda-table.html agenda=my-agenda presentations=my-presentations -%}

---

## Presentation Slides

{% if presentations-doi %}
The latest version of the slides will always be available at **<{{ site.doi-resolver-url }}/{{ presentations-doi }}>**. Note that these files may include additional slides that will not be discussed during the tutorial, but questions are welcome.

* Version history:
  - v1: Initial publication
{% else %}
The presentations will be published shortly before the tutorial.
{% endif %}

---

## How to Participate

* Please use Slack to ask questions at any time.  We will respond in chat or verbally as opportunities permit.  We'll call for questions at transition points in presentations, as time permits.

* During breaks, the instructors are happy to hold further discussions with anyone interested.

* The agenda includes a Q&A session at the end of the day as well.

---
## Hands-On Exercises

*In this tutorial, we will not have time set aside to work through the hands-on activities, but you are encouraged to pursue them on your own.  We'll watch the repository for issues and pull requests, and the mailing list for other questions, and provide feedback as we can.*

### Introduction

The hands-on exercises for this {{ page.title-type }} are based around a simple numerical model using the one-dimensional heat equation.  The example is described briefly in the repository's [README]({{ site.github-url }}/{{ hands-on-repo }}#readme) file, and in greater detail in the ATPESC [Hands-On lesson](https://xsdk-project.github.io/MathPackagesTraining2020/lessons/hand_coded_heat/).  The ATPESC version focuses on the numerical aspects of the model.  But for this {{ page.title-type }}, we're focused on how to make the software better from a quality perspective, so **you don't need to understand the math to do these exercises**.

For the purposes of these hands-on exercises, you should imagine you've inherited an early version of the hello-numerical-world software from a colleague who's left the project, and you've been assigned to get it into better shape so that it can be used in the next [ATPESC](https://extremecomputingtraining.anl.gov/) summer school.

The repository you'll be working with is on GitHub: **[{{ hands-on-repo }}]({{ site.github-url }}/{{ hands-on-repo }})**.
*Note: most of the screenshots will refer to the generic "hello-numerical-world" repository rather than the one specifically for this tutorial.*

### List of Hands-On Exercises
*Note that the exercise numbers align with the presentation modules.  Not every module has exercises (yet).*
  * **[Exercise 0: Setting up the Prerequisites](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m00-prerequisites.html)**. Setup the accounts needed for these exercises.
  * **[Exercise 2: Agile Methodologies](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m02-agile.html).**  You'll use GitHub issues and project boards to setup a simple "personal kanban" board.
  * **[Exercise 3: Git Workflows](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m03-git-workflows.html).** You'll fork our hello-numerical-world repository, create a feature branch, and make a pull request
  * **[Exercise 6: Agile Redux](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m06-agile-redux.html).**  You'll create epic, story, and task issues for the refactoring task and track them on a kanban board
  * **[Exercise 8: Software Testing](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m08-testing.html).** You'll establish a simple continuous integration workflow and then refine it, adding code coverage assessment
  * **[Exercise 10: Continuous Integration](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m10-continuous-integration.html).** You'll establish a simple continuous integration workflow and then refine it, adding code coverage assessment
  * **[Exercise 11: Refactoring Scientific Software](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m11-refactoring1.html).**  You'll perform a small, well-defined refactoring exercise

---
## Stay in Touch

* After the tutorial please feel free to email questions or feedback to the BSSw tutorial team at <bssw-tutorial@lists.mcs.anl.gov>.

* If you want to do the [hands-on exercises](#hands-on-exercises), we're happy to provide feedback on your pull requests and issues, even after the end of the tutorial.

* To find out about future events organized by the IDEAS Productivity Project, you can [subscribe to our mailing list](http://eepurl.com/cQCyJ5) (usually ~2 messages/month).

* For monthly updates on the Better Scientific Software site, subscribe to our [monthly digest](https://bssw.io/pages/receive-our-email-digest).


## Resources from Presentations

*Links from the tutorial presentations are listed here for convenience*

{%- capture resource-dir -%}{{ page.directory }}/presentation-resources{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include emit-presentation-resources.md presentation-order=presentation-order module-order=module-order presentations=my-presentations include-dir=resource-dir -%}

---

## Requested Citation

The requested citation the overall tutorial is: David E. Bernholdt, Anshu Dubey, Rinku K. Gupta, and David Rogers, {{ page.title }} {{ page.title-type }}, in {{ page.venue }}, {{ page.location }}, {{ page.date | date: '%Y' }}. {% if presentations-doi %}DOI: [{{ presentations-doi }}]({{ site.doi-resolver-url }}/{{ presentations-doi }}).{% endif %}

Individual modules may be cited as *Speaker*, *Module Title*, in Better Scientific Software tutorial…