_events/2021-03-25-iss.md, before:

---
event-type: bsswt
directory: 2021-03-25-iss
status: scheduled
location: "online"
date: 2021-03-25T13:00-600
end-date: 2021-03-25T16:00
title: "Better Scientific Software"
title-type: "tutorial"
#title-url:
venue: "Improving Scientific Software"
venue-type: "conference"
venue-url: https://sea.ucar.edu/conference/2021
presentations-doi: 10.6084/m9.figshare.14256257
hands-on-repo: bssw-tutorial/hello-numerical-world-2021-03-iss
presenter-ids: [bernhold, adubey64, rinkug, frobnitzem]
---
## Table of Contents
* [Description](#description)
* [Agenda](#agenda) 
* [Presentation Slides](#presentation-slides) 
* [How to Participate](#how-to-participate) 
* [Hands-On Exercises](#hands-on-exercises) 
* [Stay in Touch](#stay-in-touch) 
* [Resources from Presentations](#resources-from-presentations) 
* [Requested Citation](#requested-citation)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements) 

---
## Description

Producing scientific software is a challenge.  The high-performance modeling and simulation community, in particular, is dealing with the confluence of disruptive changes in computing architectures and new opportunities (and demands) for greatly improved simulation capabilities, especially through coupling physics and scales.  At the same time, computational science and engineering (CSE), as well as other areas of science, are experiencing increasing focus on scientific reproducibility and software quality.

Computer architecture changes require new software design and implementation strategies, including significant refactoring of existing code. Reproducibility demands require more rigor across the entire software endeavor. Code coupling requires aggregate team interactions including integration of software processes and practices.  These challenges demand large investments in scientific software development and improved practices.  Focusing on improved developer productivity and software sustainability is both urgent and essential.

This half-day tutorial distills multi-project and multi-years experience from members of the IDEAS Productivity project and the creators of the BSSw.io community website. The tutorial will provide information about software practices, processes, and tools explicitly tailored for CSE. Topics to be covered include: Agile methodologies and tools, software design and refactoring, testing and continuous integration, Git workflows for teams, and reproducibility. Material will be mostly at the beginner and intermediate levels. There will also be opportunities to discuss topics raised by the audience.

---
## Agenda

| Time (MDT) | Module | Topic | Speaker |
|-----------:|-------:|-------|---------|
| 1:00pm-1:05pm | 00 | Introduction | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL |
| 1:05pm-1:15pm | 01 | Motivation and Overview of Best Practices in HPC Software Development | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL |
| 1:15pm-1:45pm | 02 | Agile Methodologies | Rinku Gupta, ANL |
| 1:45pm-2:00pm | 03 | Git Workflows | Rinku Gupta, ANL |
| 2:00pm-2:20pm | 04 | Software Testing 1 | David Rogers, ORNL |
| *2:20pm-2:40pm* | | *Break (optional Q&A)* | |
| 2:40pm-3:00pm | 05 | Software Design | Anshu Dubey, ANL |
| 3:00pm-3:15pm | 06 | Software Testing 2 | David Rogers, ORNL | 
| 3:15pm-3:40pm | 07 | Refactoring | Anshu Dubey, ANL | 
| 3:40pm-3:55pm | 08 | Reproducibility | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL | 
| 3:55pm-4:00pm | 09 | Summary | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL | 

---
## Presentation Slides

* The latest version of the slides will always be available at **<{{ site.doi-resolver-url }}/{{ page.presentations-doi }}>**.
  - Note that these files may include additional slides that will not be discussed during the tutorial, but questions are welcome.

* Errata:
  - v2: Corrects a small misstatement about doing demos during breaks in the tutorial
  - v1: Provided to ISS organizers

---
## How to Participate

* Please use the Sli.do chat to ask questions at any time.  We will respond in Sli.do or verbally as opportunities permit.

* The schedule includes a break in the middle. We plan to be available for additional Q&A at that time.

---
## Hands-On Exercises

### Introduction

The hands-on exercises for this {{ page.title-type }} are based around a simple numerical model using the one-dimensional heat equation.  The example is described briefly in the repository's [README]({{ site.github-url }}/{{ page.hands-on-repo }}#readme) file, and in greater detail in the ATPESC [Hands-On lesson](https://xsdk-project.github.io/MathPackagesTraining2020/lessons/hand_coded_heat/).  The ATPESC version focuses on the numerical aspects of the model.  But for this {{ page.title-type }}, we're focused on how to make the software better from a quality perspective, so **you don't need to understand the math to do these exercises**.

For the purposes of these hands-on exercises, you should imagine you've inherited an early version of the hello-numerical-world software from a colleague who's left the project, and you've been assigned to get it into better shape so that it can be used in the next [ATPESC](https://extremecomputingtraining.anl.gov/) summer school.

The repository you'll be working with is on GitHub: **[{{ page.hands-on-repo }}]({{ site.github-url }}/{{ page.hands-on-repo }})**.
*Note: most of the screenshots will refer to the generic "hello-numerical-world" repository rather than the one specifically for this tutorial.*

### List of Hands-On Exercises
*Note that the exercise numbers align with the presentation modules.  Not every module has exercises (yet).*
* **[Exercise 0: Setting up the Prerequisites](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m00-prerequisites.html)**. Setup the accounts needed for these exercises.
* **[Exercise 2: Agile Methodologies](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m02-agile.html).**  You'll use GitHub issues and project boards to setup a simple "personal kanban" board.
* **[Exercise 3: Git Workflows](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m03-git-workflows.html).** You'll fork our hello-numerical-world repository, create a feature branch, and make a pull request
* **[Exercise 7a: Agile Redux](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m07a-agile-redux.html).**  You'll create epic, story, and task issues for the refactoring task and track them on a kanban board
* **[Exercise 7b: Refactoring Part 1](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m07b-refactoring1.html).**  You'll perform a small, well-defined refactoring exercise
* **[Exercise 7c: Refactoring Part 2](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m07c-refactoring2.html).**  You'll perform a a more open-ended refactoring exercise
* **[Additional Exercise: Continuous Integration](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m08-continuous-integration.html).** You'll establish a simple continuous integration workflow and then refine it, adding code coverage assessment

---
## Stay in Touch

* After the tutorial please feel free to email questions or feedback to the BSSw tutorial team at <bssw-tutorial@lists.mcs.anl.gov>.

* If you want to do the [hands-on exercises](#hands-on-exercises) on your own, we're happy to provide feedback on your pull requests.

* To find out about future events organized by the IDEAS Productivity Project, you can [subscribe to our mailing list](http://eepurl.com/cQCyJ5) (usually ~2 messages/month).

* For monthly updates on the Better Scientific Software site, subscribe to our [monthly digest](https://bssw.io/pages/receive-our-email-digest).

---
## Resources from Presentations
*These are the links included in the tutorial presentations, included here for easier access*

* Module 0: Introduction
  * [IDEAS Productivity Project](http://ideas-productivity.org)
    * [IDEAS Productivity mailing list](http://eepurl.com/cQCyJ5)
  * [Better Scientific Software site](https://bssw.io)
    * [BSSw Digest](https://bssw.io/pages/receive-our-email-digest)
    * [RSS Feed](https://bssw.io/items.rss)
  * [The IDEAS Report](https://exascaleproject.org/better-scientific-productivity-through-better-scientific-software-the-ideas-report)
  * [Tutorial Evaluation Link](https://submissions.supercomputing.org/?page=Submit&id=TutorialEvaluation&site=sc20)
  * [Write to the tutorial authors](mailto:bssw-tutorial@lists.mcs.anl.gov)
* Module 1: Motivation and Overview of Best Practices in HPC Software Development
  * *none*
* Module 2: Agile Methodologies
  * [Agile Manifesto](http://agilemanifesto.org/)
  * [A-team tools for Agile practices](https://betterscientificsoftware.github.io/A-Team-Tools/)
  * [Policies: A Code of Conduct for Open Source Projects](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/)
  * Books
    * [The Agile Samurai: How Agile Masters Deliver Great Software, by Jonathan Rasmusson](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1934356581/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_ClBABbNGS7ZKS)
    * [Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity, by David Allen](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0143126563/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_apBABbT2YZMMK)
    * [Code Complete: A Practical Handbook of Software Construction, by Steve McConnell](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0735619670/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_CkBABbXJWS8KV)
* Module 3: Git Workflows
  * [Atlassian/BitBucket (Comparing Workflows)](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows)
  * [Git Flow (Driessen's Original Blog)](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)
      * [Git extensions](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow)
  * [GitHub Flow](http://scottchacon.com/2011/08/31/github-flow.html)
  * [GitLab Flow](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/workflow/gitlab_flow.html)
* Module 4: Software Testing 1
  * Python Build and Test Framework: [pyscaffold.org](https://pyscaffold.org)
  * Build-Link-Test CMake Framework: [llnl-blt.readthedocs.io](https://llnl-blt.readthedocs.io)
  * Static Source Analysis (C++): [clang-tidy](https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/)
  * Static Source Analysis (python): [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/index.html) and [pylint](https://www.pylint.org/)
  * Code Coverage Webservices: [codecov](https://about.codecov.io/) and [coveralls](https://coveralls.io/)
  * Tutorials for code coverage: [Online Tutorial](https://github.com/amklinv/morpheus), [Another example](https://github.com/jrdoneal/infrastructure)
  * [Development Practices Survey Article](https://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.14188463.v1)
* Module 5: Software Design
  * [Related Article](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-27308-2_19)
* Module 6: Software Testing 2
  * [Useful How-to resources on test and test suites on ideas-productivity.org](https://ideas-productivity.org/resources/howtos/)
  * Related Articles: [1](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8449015), [2](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/spe.2220)
* Module 7: Refactoring
  * [heatAll.C](https://github.com/betterscientificsoftware/hello-numerical-world-atpesc-2020)
  * [AMReX](https://amrex-codes.github.io/amrex/science.html)
  * [Related Article](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s42979-020-0077-x)
* Module 8: Reproducibility
  * [Floating Point Analysis Tools](http://fpanalysistools.org/)
  * [Code Ocean (Cloud platforms - publish and reproduce research code and data)](https://codeocean.com/)
  * DOIs and hosting of data, code, documents:
     * [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/)
     * [FigShare](https://figshare.com/)
  * [National Science Foundation Data Management Plan Requirements](https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/dmp.jsp)
  * [SC20 Transparency and Reproducibility Initiative](https://sc20.supercomputing.org/submit/transparency-reproducibility-initiative/)
  * [ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (TOMS)](http://toms.acm.org/replicated-computational-results.cfm)
  * [ACM Artifact Review and Badging](https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/artifact-review-and-badging-current)
  * [ National Information Standards Organization (NISO) on Reproducibility and Badging](https://www.niso.org/niso-io/2019/01/new-niso-project-badging-scheme-reproducibility-computational-and-computing)
  * [The FAIR Guiding Principles for Scientific Data Management and Stewardship. Mark D. Wilkinson, et al. 2016](https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2016.18)
  * [Editorial: ACM TOMS Replicated Computational Results Initiative. Michael A. Heroux. 2015](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2743015)
  * [Simple experiments in reproducibility and technical trust by Mike Heroux and students (work in progress)](https://betterscientificsoftware.github.io/Trust-Tools/)
* Module 9: Summary
  * COVID-19 epidemiology saga
    * <https://doi.org/10.25561/77482>
    * <https://www.nicholaslewis.org/imperial-college-uk-covid-19-numbers-dont-seem-to-add-up/>
    * <https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-01003-6>
    * <https://www.foxnews.com/world/imperial-college-britain-coronavirus-lockdown-buggy-mess-unreliable>
    * <https://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/2020/05/16/coding-led-lockdown-totally-unreliable-buggy-mess-say-experts/>
    * <https://github.com/mrc-ide/covid-sim/>
    * <https://philbull.wordpress.com/2020/05/10/why-you-can-ignore-reviews-of-scientific-code-by-commercial-software-developers/amp/>
    * <http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3865491>
  * [Productivity and Sustainability Improvement Planning](https://bssw.io/psip)
  * [Better Scientific Software web site](https://bssw.io/)
* Additional Module: Continuous Integration
  * [Exascale Computing Project CI documentation](https://ecp-ci.gitlab.io/)
  * [Travis CI service](https://travis-ci.com)
  * [Codecov service](https://codecov.io)

---
## Requested Citation
The requested citation the overall tutorial is: David E. Bernholdt, Anshu Dubey, Rinku K. Gupta, and David Rogers, Better Scientific Software tutorial, in Improving Scientific Software, online, 2021. DOI: [{{ page.presentations-doi }}]({{ site.doi-resolver-url }}/{{ page.presentations-doi }}).

Individual modules may be cited as *Speaker*, *Module Title*, in Better Scientific Software tutorial…

Commit message:

Shift to using general artifacts data structure
Artifacts should include the presentation slide DOI (always present), the hands-on code repo (often present), and any other artifacts which may relate to the tutorial (particularly playlists for videos).

Because the artifact information may be needed in multiple locations (including personalizing the hands-on instructions), we need to put the artifacts in a _data file to make the universally available.

_events/2021-03-25-iss.md, after:

---
event-type: bsswt
directory: 2021-03-25-iss
status: scheduled
location: "online"
date: 2021-03-25T13:00-600
end-date: 2021-03-25T16:00
title: "Better Scientific Software"
title-type: "tutorial"
#title-url:
venue: "Improving Scientific Software"
venue-type: "conference"
venue-url: https://sea.ucar.edu/conference/2021
presenter-ids: [bernhold, adubey64, rinkug, frobnitzem]
# artifacts are in _data/bsswt/{{ page.directory }}
---
{%- assign my-artifacts = site.data.bsswt[page.directory].artifacts -%}
{%- include key-artifact-shorthands artifacts=my-artifacts -%}

## On this Page
* [Description](#description)
* [Agenda](#agenda) 
* [Presentation Slides](#presentation-slides) 
* [How to Participate](#how-to-participate) 
* [Hands-On Exercises](#hands-on-exercises) 
* [Stay in Touch](#stay-in-touch) 
* [Resources from Presentations](#resources-from-presentations) 
* [Requested Citation](#requested-citation)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements) 

---
## Description

Producing scientific software is a challenge.  The high-performance modeling and simulation community, in particular, is dealing with the confluence of disruptive changes in computing architectures and new opportunities (and demands) for greatly improved simulation capabilities, especially through coupling physics and scales.  At the same time, computational science and engineering (CSE), as well as other areas of science, are experiencing increasing focus on scientific reproducibility and software quality.

Computer architecture changes require new software design and implementation strategies, including significant refactoring of existing code. Reproducibility demands require more rigor across the entire software endeavor. Code coupling requires aggregate team interactions including integration of software processes and practices.  These challenges demand large investments in scientific software development and improved practices.  Focusing on improved developer productivity and software sustainability is both urgent and essential.

This half-day tutorial distills multi-project and multi-years experience from members of the IDEAS Productivity project and the creators of the BSSw.io community website. The tutorial will provide information about software practices, processes, and tools explicitly tailored for CSE. Topics to be covered include: Agile methodologies and tools, software design and refactoring, testing and continuous integration, Git workflows for teams, and reproducibility. Material will be mostly at the beginner and intermediate levels. There will also be opportunities to discuss topics raised by the audience.

---
## Agenda

| Time (MDT) | Module | Topic | Speaker |
|-----------:|-------:|-------|---------|
| 1:00pm-1:05pm | 00 | Introduction | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL |
| 1:05pm-1:15pm | 01 | Motivation and Overview of Best Practices in HPC Software Development | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL |
| 1:15pm-1:45pm | 02 | Agile Methodologies | Rinku Gupta, ANL |
| 1:45pm-2:00pm | 03 | Git Workflows | Rinku Gupta, ANL |
| 2:00pm-2:20pm | 04 | Software Testing 1 | David Rogers, ORNL |
| *2:20pm-2:40pm* | | *Break (optional Q&A)* | |
| 2:40pm-3:00pm | 05 | Software Design | Anshu Dubey, ANL |
| 3:00pm-3:15pm | 06 | Software Testing 2 | David Rogers, ORNL | 
| 3:15pm-3:40pm | 07 | Refactoring | Anshu Dubey, ANL | 
| 3:40pm-3:55pm | 08 | Reproducibility | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL | 
| 3:55pm-4:00pm | 09 | Summary | David E. Bernholdt, ORNL | 

---
## Presentation Slides

* The latest version of the slides will always be available at **<{{ site.doi-resolver-url }}/{{ presentations-doi }}>**.
  - Note that these files may include additional slides that will not be discussed during the tutorial, but questions are welcome.

* Errata:
  - v2: Corrects a small misstatement about doing demos during breaks in the tutorial
  - v1: Provided to ISS organizers

---
## How to Participate

* Please use the Sli.do chat to ask questions at any time.  We will respond in Sli.do or verbally as opportunities permit.

* The schedule includes a break in the middle. We plan to be available for additional Q&A at that time.

---
## Hands-On Exercises

### Introduction

The hands-on exercises for this {{ page.title-type }} are based around a simple numerical model using the one-dimensional heat equation.  The example is described briefly in the repository's [README]({{ site.github-url }}/{{ hands-on-repo }}#readme) file, and in greater detail in the ATPESC [Hands-On lesson](https://xsdk-project.github.io/MathPackagesTraining2020/lessons/hand_coded_heat/).  The ATPESC version focuses on the numerical aspects of the model.  But for this {{ page.title-type }}, we're focused on how to make the software better from a quality perspective, so **you don't need to understand the math to do these exercises**.

For the purposes of these hands-on exercises, you should imagine you've inherited an early version of the hello-numerical-world software from a colleague who's left the project, and you've been assigned to get it into better shape so that it can be used in the next [ATPESC](https://extremecomputingtraining.anl.gov/) summer school.

The repository you'll be working with is on GitHub: **[{{ hands-on-repo }}]({{ site.github-url }}/{{ hands-on-repo }})**.
*Note: most of the screenshots will refer to the generic "hello-numerical-world" repository rather than the one specifically for this tutorial.*

### List of Hands-On Exercises
*Note that the exercise numbers align with the presentation modules.  Not every module has exercises (yet).*
* **[Exercise 0: Setting up the Prerequisites](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m00-prerequisites.html)**. Setup the accounts needed for these exercises.
* **[Exercise 2: Agile Methodologies](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m02-agile.html).**  You'll use GitHub issues and project boards to setup a simple "personal kanban" board.
* **[Exercise 3: Git Workflows](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m03-git-workflows.html).** You'll fork our hello-numerical-world repository, create a feature branch, and make a pull request
* **[Exercise 7a: Agile Redux](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m07a-agile-redux.html).**  You'll create epic, story, and task issues for the refactoring task and track them on a kanban board
* **[Exercise 7b: Refactoring Part 1](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m07b-refactoring1.html).**  You'll perform a small, well-defined refactoring exercise
* **[Exercise 7c: Refactoring Part 2](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m07c-refactoring2.html).**  You'll perform a a more open-ended refactoring exercise
* **[Additional Exercise: Continuous Integration](../{{ page.directory }}/handson-m08-continuous-integration.html).** You'll establish a simple continuous integration workflow and then refine it, adding code coverage assessment

---
## Stay in Touch

* After the tutorial please feel free to email questions or feedback to the BSSw tutorial team at <bssw-tutorial@lists.mcs.anl.gov>.

* If you want to do the [hands-on exercises](#hands-on-exercises) on your own, we're happy to provide feedback on your pull requests.

* To find out about future events organized by the IDEAS Productivity Project, you can [subscribe to our mailing list](http://eepurl.com/cQCyJ5) (usually ~2 messages/month).

* For monthly updates on the Better Scientific Software site, subscribe to our [monthly digest](https://bssw.io/pages/receive-our-email-digest).

---
## Resources from Presentations
*These are the links included in the tutorial presentations, included here for easier access*

* Module 0: Introduction
  * [IDEAS Productivity Project](http://ideas-productivity.org)
    * [IDEAS Productivity mailing list](http://eepurl.com/cQCyJ5)
  * [Better Scientific Software site](https://bssw.io)
    * [BSSw Digest](https://bssw.io/pages/receive-our-email-digest)
    * [RSS Feed](https://bssw.io/items.rss)
  * [The IDEAS Report](https://exascaleproject.org/better-scientific-productivity-through-better-scientific-software-the-ideas-report)
  * [Tutorial Evaluation Link](https://submissions.supercomputing.org/?page=Submit&id=TutorialEvaluation&site=sc20)
  * [Write to the tutorial authors](mailto:bssw-tutorial@lists.mcs.anl.gov)
* Module 1: Motivation and Overview of Best Practices in HPC Software Development
  * *none*
* Module 2: Agile Methodologies
  * [Agile Manifesto](http://agilemanifesto.org/)
  * [A-team tools for Agile practices](https://betterscientificsoftware.github.io/A-Team-Tools/)
  * [Policies: A Code of Conduct for Open Source Projects](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/)
  * Books
    * [The Agile Samurai: How Agile Masters Deliver Great Software, by Jonathan Rasmusson](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1934356581/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_ClBABbNGS7ZKS)
    * [Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity, by David Allen](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0143126563/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_apBABbT2YZMMK)
    * [Code Complete: A Practical Handbook of Software Construction, by Steve McConnell](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0735619670/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_ep_dp_CkBABbXJWS8KV)
* Module 3: Git Workflows
  * [Atlassian/BitBucket (Comparing Workflows)](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows)
  * [Git Flow (Driessen's Original Blog)](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)
      * [Git extensions](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow)
  * [GitHub Flow](http://scottchacon.com/2011/08/31/github-flow.html)
  * [GitLab Flow](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/workflow/gitlab_flow.html)
* Module 4: Software Testing 1
  * Python Build and Test Framework: [pyscaffold.org](https://pyscaffold.org)
  * Build-Link-Test CMake Framework: [llnl-blt.readthedocs.io](https://llnl-blt.readthedocs.io)
  * Static Source Analysis (C++): [clang-tidy](https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/)
  * Static Source Analysis (python): [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/index.html) and [pylint](https://www.pylint.org/)
  * Code Coverage Webservices: [codecov](https://about.codecov.io/) and [coveralls](https://coveralls.io/)
  * Tutorials for code coverage: [Online Tutorial](https://github.com/amklinv/morpheus), [Another example](https://github.com/jrdoneal/infrastructure)
  * [Development Practices Survey Article](https://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.14188463.v1)
* Module 5: Software Design
  * [Related Article](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-27308-2_19)
* Module 6: Software Testing 2
  * [Useful How-to resources on test and test suites on ideas-productivity.org](https://ideas-productivity.org/resources/howtos/)
  * Related Articles: [1](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8449015), [2](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/spe.2220)
* Module 7: Refactoring
  * [heatAll.C](https://github.com/betterscientificsoftware/hello-numerical-world-atpesc-2020)
  * [AMReX](https://amrex-codes.github.io/amrex/science.html)
  * [Related Article](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s42979-020-0077-x)
* Module 8: Reproducibility
  * [Floating Point Analysis Tools](http://fpanalysistools.org/)
  * [Code Ocean (Cloud platforms - publish and reproduce research code and data)](https://codeocean.com/)
  * DOIs and hosting of data, code, documents:
     * [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/)
     * [FigShare](https://figshare.com/)
  * [National Science Foundation Data Management Plan Requirements](https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/dmp.jsp)
  * [SC20 Transparency and Reproducibility Initiative](https://sc20.supercomputing.org/submit/transparency-reproducibility-initiative/)
  * [ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (TOMS)](http://toms.acm.org/replicated-computational-results.cfm)
  * [ACM Artifact Review and Badging](https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/artifact-review-and-badging-current)
  * [ National Information Standards Organization (NISO) on Reproducibility and Badging](https://www.niso.org/niso-io/2019/01/new-niso-project-badging-scheme-reproducibility-computational-and-computing)
  * [The FAIR Guiding Principles for Scientific Data Management and Stewardship. Mark D. Wilkinson, et al. 2016](https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2016.18)
  * [Editorial: ACM TOMS Replicated Computational Results Initiative. Michael A. Heroux. 2015](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2743015)
  * [Simple experiments in reproducibility and technical trust by Mike Heroux and students (work in progress)](https://betterscientificsoftware.github.io/Trust-Tools/)
* Module 9: Summary
  * COVID-19 epidemiology saga
    * <https://doi.org/10.25561/77482>
    * <https://www.nicholaslewis.org/imperial-college-uk-covid-19-numbers-dont-seem-to-add-up/>
    * <https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-01003-6>
    * <https://www.foxnews.com/world/imperial-college-britain-coronavirus-lockdown-buggy-mess-unreliable>
    * <https://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/2020/05/16/coding-led-lockdown-totally-unreliable-buggy-mess-say-experts/>
    * <https://github.com/mrc-ide/covid-sim/>
    * <https://philbull.wordpress.com/2020/05/10/why-you-can-ignore-reviews-of-scientific-code-by-commercial-software-developers/amp/>
    * <http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3865491>
  * [Productivity and Sustainability Improvement Planning](https://bssw.io/psip)
  * [Better Scientific Software web site](https://bssw.io/)
* Additional Module: Continuous Integration
  * [Exascale Computing Project CI documentation](https://ecp-ci.gitlab.io/)
  * [Travis CI service](https://travis-ci.com)
  * [Codecov service](https://codecov.io)

---
## Requested Citation
The requested citation the overall tutorial is: David E. Bernholdt, Anshu Dubey, Rinku K. Gupta, and David Rogers, Better Scientific Software tutorial, in Improving Scientific Software, online, 2021. DOI: [{{ presentations-doi }}]({{ site.doi-resolver-url }}/{{ presentations-doi }}).

Individual modules may be cited as *Speaker*, *Module Title*, in Better Scientific Software tutorial…
